== Welcome to my second Rails App.
This is called Market finder and is a semester 2 project for 
my Web Technologies HETAC/NFQ Level 8 honours degree.
Here is the project proposal, minus diagrams!



1. Objectives





Need groceries but can’t face the bright lights of Tesco? Concerned about the environment and want 
to source locally grown and seasonal produce? Or just want to be seen buying the hippest coffee at 
the most bourgeois stalls?!!

MarketFinder helps you find out about local markets.

I aim to provide up to date information on Farmers Markets, Pop-Ups and Co-ops:

●   the site will display “what’s on now”
●   an event calendar will display upcoming market events
●   users can select specific days, weeks or months on the event calendar
●   users can use their current location, a pinned location or can select from a
dropdown list to find out what’s on in their area
●   users can narrow their search using both location AND date in order to plan ahead for trips
●   both map and calendar search results will then display an event or list of events, dates, 
times, and a brief description with image.

Scope & limitations
Up-to-date information will be a key feature of this service. For the purposes of this project, I 
will directly gather event information. I will research features to facilitate interaction with 
organisers, e.g. scheduled email or text reminders, or system access for organisers to provide 
updates. This will need to be discussed further within a focus group setting and is currently out 
of scope.

I will gather end-user requirements from both organisers and site users/visitors. Requirements not 
in scope for this development will be noted, listed and researched for inclusion in later versions. 
The features ear-marked for development in future versions are listed below, attempts will be made 
to include the first three in this current build, time permitting:

●   a weather report feature
●   twitter plug in
●   automation of updates from organisers
●   a photo gallery
●   lists of traders
●   reviews, ratings and feedback from customers
●   links to sites with more info.
●   news feature for press or relevant articles.
●   MarketFinder for mobile
Within this project I will focus on the application’s function as an interactive event
guide, with a database of events and event information, map and calendar features.



2. Background




Concept
Feedback from potential end-users suggests that this clear, interactive and free desktop 
application would be a very useful tool for customers, and even more so for organisers.

Stemming from an interest in sustainable grocery shopping and supporting local industries, and 
informed by writer/entrepreneur Sam Mogannam, or campaigners like Jamie Oliver and Curt Ellis, this 
is my small contribution to improving access to good food and promoting good food channels.





Curt Ellis on sustainable food systems and tackling obesity:

http://www.nourishlife.org/2011/11/perpse ctive-curt-ellis-on-foodcorps/



Short interview with Sam
Mogannam of Bi-Rite:


http://youtu.be/LHfpEe_W9qQ


Jamie Oliver’s food
revolution campaigns:
http://www.jamieoliver.com
/foundation/

Existing resources
One of the best sources of good produce in Ireland, and traditionally an important part of every 
community, Co-ops and Farmers Markets are now on the outer fringes of food distribution. 
Information on markets is notoriously difficult to source, in addition traders and market 
organisers tend not to be technical and advertise very little.

The following websites currently provide lists of markets: 
http://www.bordbia.ie/aboutfood/farmersmarkets/pages/default.aspx http://www.countrymarkets.ie/
http://irishfarmersmarkets.ie



The shortcoming of these current sources is their static format. I aim to have regularly updated 
information from organisers. MarketFinder will display information in an interactive format, 
allowing users to narrow searches by location and date.



3. Technical Approach

To design the architecture of this application, I will employ an Agile/Iterative approach, using an 
Object Oriented analysis and design process; beginning with requirements, then mapping the 
interactions and classes, with a reassessment of requirements at designated times (Section 5), 
allowing modifications according to constraints and progress. Further details on the application 
architecture can be seen below in this Section.



To establish the development methodology I have taken into account the scale of this project, and 
the timelines and resources, as well as the use of a Rails framework, and I consider the most 
feasible approach to be Rapid Application Development (RAD).

The Ruby on Rails framework allows for an application structure to be put in place very quickly. 
There is a requirement to produce an initial operable prototype weeks after submission of this 
proposal and RAD using Rails will facilitate this. In addition, as I am developing this application 
by myself and within a short timeframe, RAD is considered the appropriate methodology.

Design of application architecture: Data model:


4. Research



Extensive research has been carried out of existing map applications, calendar applications and 
event guides. None of these match our functionality however many, particularly those built with 
Rails, are important references:


Existing technology for reference


http://www.wayfaring.com/ http://atlanta.metromix.com/ http://www.qype.co.uk/ 
http://www.upout.com/sf


http://railsrumble.com/entries/563-triptip-in

http://railsrumble.com/entries/499-gigblender https://github.com/daybreaker/Close-Enough

http://railscasts.com/episodes/273- geocoder

http://railscasts.com/episodes/213- calendars

http://geokit.rubyforge.org/



Literature and online resources:
Agile development with rails: Sam Ruby, Modern Javascript: Larry Ullman, Beginning
Google Maps Applications with Rails and Ajax: Andre Lewis, Learn to Program: Chris Pine

Teamtreehouse.com, Lynda.com, Slideshare.net, nptel.iitm.ac.in, ruby-toolbox.com, 
Stackoverflow.com, Codecademy.com,  github.com, railscasts.com, guides.rubyonrails.org, 
rubyonrails.org/testing





5. Project Plan & Resources


My starting point is to define functional and non -functional requirements, setting current and 
future IT requirements, by engaging with potential end users and researching existing technologies 
and resources.

I have scheduled a Requirements Review to take place after prototype delivery, where I will 
evaluate progress and assess whether additional features can be delivered, and how existing 
features need to be modified. My next steps are outlined in the chart below.

Resources
Planning and development of this application will be carried out by me. I will liaise with NCI 
lecturer and tutors for advice on feasibility and for guidance. I will refer to potential end users 
for user test and evaluation.


6. Technical Details

●   This application’s infrastructure will be built using Rails 3.2.1 and Ruby 1.9.3 and
MySQL

●   Front-end: Twitter bootstrap, Javascripting, and JQuery

●   Data Sources and Data APIs have yet to be defined

●   Additional useful library, Gem and API requirements so far identified:


7. Evaluation and testing




I will avail of Rails Application Testing, an environment which can be built into the Rails 
structure. The Rails YAML configuration file allows the set-up of test data without altering the 
production environment. Within Rails, helpers are available for Unit, Functional and Integration 
testing.

Functional Evaluation: testing each functional requirement as set out in the Requirements 
Specification document, and an assessment of the extent to which these have been met.

Scenario Evaluation: ensure objectives such as search by location and by date have been met by 
testing a variety of scenarios.

User Evaluation: end-users of the site, both visitors and those who would promote events, will test 
and evaluate the operation of the application.
8. Consultations with Academic Staff


Karen Rooney 21/02/13
